DOCS-8181-4.3-tuning-test-validations-kt (#1436)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/tuning-test-validations.adoc

> = Performance Test Validations

Reviewer: I guess "test validation" is a common term in our technology?
Seems to me much easier to just use "test," which implies validating (or invalidating) assumptions about performance, but that's probably just me....

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> To start validating your application's performance, first understand the prerequisites to testing, follow the recommended best practices, and then execute performance testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To validate your application's performance:
. Learn testing prerequisites.
. Follow best practices.
. Execute performance testing.
```

> == Prerequisites to Perform Test Validations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==  Performance Test Validation Prerequisites
```

> Before testing the performance, consider the following points:

Reviewer: parallel wording to the intro:
```suggestion
Before executing performance testing:
```

> * Confirm that your Mule app and its functions work as expected because a wrong flow can give false-positive data.

Reviewer: Because "a wrong flow" and "false-positive data" are not defined, consider shortening to this:
```suggestion
* Confirm that your Mule app and its functions work as expected.
```
Are there subbullets that tell how to do this?

> * Establish the performance criteria for the test cases to determine the goal and scope for tuning. The following questions can help you clarify the performance requirements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Establish performance test criteria by asking yourself the following questions:
```

> ** What are the expected average and peak workloads?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** What are the use-case expected average and peak workloads?
```

> ** Is the use case emphasis on throughput, concurrency, response time or size of messages? Some common cases are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** What specific need does your use case address: 
```

> *** Focus on throughput when handling a large volume of transactions is a high priority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*** Throughput, when handling a large volume of transactions is a high priority
```

> *** Focus on response time or latency if spikes affect user experience and becomes frustrated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*** Response time or latency, if spikes in activity negatively affect user experience
```

> *** Focus on concurrency if it is necessary to support a high number of users connecting at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*** Concurrency, if it is necessary to support a large number of users connecting at the same time
```

> *** Focus on managing large messages when the application is transferring, caching, storing, and or processing a payload bigger than 1 MB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*** Managing large messages, when the application is transferring, caching, storing, or processing a payload bigger than 1 MB.
```

** What is the minimum acceptable throughput?

> ** What is the maximum acceptable response time?

Reviewer: Don't these repeat two of the subbullets to "specific needs"?
I wonder if this topic should have a single list of five peer subbullets instead of three that have their own:
Avg/peak workloads
Throughput
Response time
Concurrency
Large payloads

== Performance Test Validations Best Practices

> To apply performance testing consider the following best practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testing best practices require you to consider your testing environment, your testing tools, component isolation, and representative workloads.
```

=== Use a Controlled Environment

> Use a self-controlled environment to obtain repeatable, reliable and consistent data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a self-controlled environment to obtain repeatable, reliable, and consistent data:
```

> To control and stabilize the environment:

Reviewer: repetitive; omit
```suggestion
```

> * Use an infrastructure made by a triplet:

Reviewer: I'm not sure what "made by a triplet" means: comprising a triplet? created by a triplet? 
```suggestion
* Use a triplet infrastructure:
```
And how do the subbullets indicate triplets: the three separate hosts, as well as the client-server-backend trio?
Should the first three subbullets be on subbullet about the three hosts, to be parallel with the two subbulets about on-prem and CH tests?

> ** Use a dedicated host for the Mule application to have isolated information preventing other running processes from interfering with the results in case of on-premises tests.

Reviewer: Do we really need to explain the reasons for the dedicated hosts? I suggest...:
```suggestion
** Use separate, dedicated hosts for the Mule application, for running load client tools, and for running backend services.
```
OR
```suggestion
** Use a triplet of separate, dedicated hosts for the Mule application, the load client tools, and the backend services.
```

Reviewer: If you want to use the separate bullets, then...:
```suggestion
** Use a dedicated host for the Mule application to isolate app information, preventing other running processes from interfering with the results of on-premises tests.
```

> ** Use a separate and dedicated host for running load client tools that can drive the load without becoming the bottleneck.

Reviewer: See suggestion to combine or, if separate, this:
```suggestion
** Use a separate dedicated host for running load client tools that can drive the load without becoming a bottleneck.
```

> ** Use a separate and dedicated host to run backend services like database, Tomcat, JMS, ActiveMQ, and so on. Use the same host the application uses in the production environment.

Reviewer: ditto combining, or:
```suggestion
** Use a separate dedicated host to run backend services like the database, Tomcat, JMS, ActiveMQ, and so on. Test using the same host that the application uses in production.
```

> ** For on-premises tests, have the load client, runtime server and backend running in the same vpc to decrease network latency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** For on-premises tests, run the load client, runtime server, and backend in the same Anypoint Virtual Private Cloud (Anypoint VPC) to decrease network latency.
```

> ** For Cloudhub tests, have the load client and backend server running on another dedicated machine but in the same region as the CloudHub worker to decrease network latency.

Reviewer: parallel to previous:
```suggestion
** For Cloudhub tests, run the load client and backend server on dedicated machine that is separate from but in the same region as the CloudHub worker to decrease network latency.
```

* Use a wired stable network.

> * Don't use your laptop because it may outperform the same application deployed to a customer’s environment, particularly if it is virtualized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Don't use your laptop, because its performance might not be representative of a customer’s environment.
```

.Performance test infrastructure (Separate host avoid interference)
image::mruntime-tuning-test-infrastructure.png[Performance test infrastructure]

=== Choose the Right Tools

> 

Reviewer: The topic set introduction uses "testing tools" and this title refers to "the right tools," but the following sentence refers to "components" instead. I suggest we standardize on "tools," or make the distinction clearer, if there is one.

> The components used for testing can make a big difference for your use case:

Reviewer: active voice:
```suggestion
The components you use for testing can make a big difference in your use case results:
```
HOWEVER...I don't think we need two bullets, because the items are not separate but rather one narrative, going from choosing the right tools and then not changing them without rerunning the test....
If that is so, I suggest removing this list introduction and following the title directly with:

 "To get realistic performance data... The MuleSoft Performance team uses....

After you choose your tools, continue to use them throughout testing, to obtain consistent results. If you change tools, you must rerun all of your tests using the new tools.

==Isolate...."

> * To get real performance data, choose the most suitable load injector and a backend service configured with the same setup as your customer environment.  +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To get realistic performance data, choose the most suitable load injector and a backend service, configured with the same setup as your customer environment.  +
```
Are the load injector and backend service what we mean by "tools"?
If so, why don't we name them instead of calling them "tools"?
If not...where/what are "the right tools"?
Maybe this should be...:
```suggestion
To get realistic performance data, use the most suitable load injector and a backend service configured with the same setup as your customer environment. Then choose the load-test tool that best matches your use case. The MuleSoft Performance team uses Apache JMeter, but you can use any of many available enterprise and open-source load test tools for a variety of different implementations, such as single-threaded, multithreaded, nonblocking, and so on.+
```

> MuleSoft Performance team uses Apache JMeter; however, there are many enterprise and open source load test tools in the market with different implementations such as single-threaded, multi-threaded, non-blocking, etc. Each one has its advantages and disadvantages depending on the scenario.

Reviewer: See suggestion above, for making this running text instead of two bullets, and for clarifying what we mean by "tools" (this is a little clouded by also mentioning the load injector and backend service, which are not tools?)

> * After you configure the tools, continue to use them for consistent comparisons.
> * If you change any of the tools, execute all the tests again, and create a new baseline.

Reviewer: Combine to be the second plain-text paragraph of this subtopic:
```suggestion
After you choose the right testing tools and begin to use them, continue to use them so that you obtain consistent test results. If you decide that the tools you have are not the right ones for your use case and you change them, you must execute all of the tests again.
```

Reviewer: Break here

=== Isolate the Components of the Test

> Because performance is an iterative process and many variables affects the results, it is important that you try to isolate the problem and control these variables. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because performance is an iterative process during which any of many variables can negatively affect the results, it is important that you be able to identify and isolate the variables causing a problem. To do this, split your application into several small pieces, each targeting a specific component or connector in the flow. This helps you to identify the bottlenecks and direct optimization efforts towards a specific flow element.+
```

> To improve the results, split the application into several small ones targeting a specific component or connector. This helps to spot the bottlenecks and direct optimization efforts towards a specific flow element.

Reviewer: Omit, per above.
```suggestion
```

=== Use Representative Workloads

> The combination of the following practices may affect the performance of your Mule app. +

Reviewer: Omit; this adds nothing to the text, which really starts with the following sentence.
```suggestion
```

> When you test your application, it is important to imitate real world customer use cases. To obtain customer scenarios, analyze:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you test your application, it is important to imitate realistic customer use cases. To do so, gather information about the following characteristics of actual customer scenarios:
```

> * User behavior

Reviewer: Such as...?

> * Workload (virtual users, messages, etc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Workload (number of virtual users, number of messages, and so on)
```

> * Payloads (type, size, complexity)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Payloads (types, sizes, and complexity)
```

> Additionally, as a best practice:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using this information, you can then create different repeatable, common, and high-load scenarios that test the performance limits of Mule without causing failure. To imitate actual customer behavior, introduce variables such as think time between requests and latency to the backend service.
```

Reviewer: I think that this is really one paragraph and not a list of two practices (also, a list typically requires more than two items).

* Create different scenarios with a repeatable, common, and high load in order to stress Mule, but not too high that pushes Mule to the limit and causes test failure.

> * To imitate actual customer behavior, introduce variables as think time between requests and latency to the backend service.

Reviewer: Combine as above
```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: What is all this space?

== Execute Performance Test Validations

> Before you start the test execution, ideally remove the ramp-up, tear down, and error percentage settings that can affect the throughput calculation results. Considering the best practices from the previous section, execute the testing:

Reviewer: The first sentence sounds like something that should be documented in the Prerequisites topic.

The second sentence could be simply, "Follow these steps to conduct your performance test:"

> . Apply performance testing to spot and validate the bottlenecks of the applications.

Reviewer: Is this still correct?
```suggestion
. Test individual pieces of the application to identify bottlenecks.
```

. Use an iterative approach for tuning issues that you find:
.. First, tune Mule’s flows and configurations (only for Cloudhub and on-premises applications)
.. Tune the JVM, GC, and so on. (only for on-premises applications)

> .. Finally, tune operating system variables (only for On-premises applications)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For a CloudHub application, tune Mule flows and configurations
* For on-premises applications:
.. Tune Mule flows and configurations.
.. Tune the JVM, GC, and so on.
.. Tune operating system variables.
```

. Execute the test several times for trustworthy results. Make one xref:tuning-recommendations.adoc[Tuning Recommendation] change at a time and then retest.

> . Check the test results.

Reviewer: At this point, I am not sure that these testing steps are in order:
. Test to find issues
. Tune issues
. Retest to find...issues not fixed by the tuning?
. Check the test results

Do we really mean:
. Test to find issues.
. For the first issue, change the value of the first item in the Mule configuration. 
. Retest and check the results.
. Continue changing values one at a time and retesting until there are no issues in the Mule configuration.
. Repeat Steps 2 through 4 in on-premises applications for:
* JVC, GC, and so on
* Operating system variables
. Move to the next issue and repeat Steps 2 through 5, until no issues remain.

So, there is iteration of tuning and testing within each issue, and iteration of this process for each issue, until the test is successful?

Whew! I would like to see a graphic illustrating this.

Please adjust this subtopic as you see fit, but please also run it by a peer writer to see if it makes sense to them. I feel a little out of my depth here.
